Developer documentation update involving module invocation (#55747)
ansible/ansible: docs/docsite/rst/dev_guide/developing_program_flow_modules.rst

Ansible module architecture
***************************

> If you're working on Ansible's Core code, or writing an Ansible module, this deep dive helps you understand how Ansible's program flow executes

Reviewer: i would add 'developing action plugins' to the reasons you would want to read this

modules. If you're just using Ansible Modules in playbooks, you can skip this section.

.. contents::
   :local:

.. _flow_types_of_modules:

Types of modules
================

Ansible supports several different types of modules in its code base. Some of
these are for backwards compatibility and others are to enable flexibility.

.. _flow_action_plugins:

Action plugins
--------------

> Action plugins look like modules to anyone writing a playbook. They are documented as modules. However, they behave differently on the back end. Action plugins always execute on the controller.

Reviewer: 'they are documented as modules' can be read in 2 ways, 'their usage documentation lives inside a module' or 'the documentation makes no distinction on module vs action plugin', the latter being not completely true since we do reflect that 'this module has an action plugin' and that they are diff types than modules. 

I would rephrase:
"The 'action' of a task is normally assumed to be the same as a module of the same name, but there is always an 'action plugin' involved, sometimes they just execute the  module, other times they do all the work and the module is just there as documentation, in other cases it is something in between."

"Then the paragraph below is good with examples, i would also add "then modules that don't have a corresponding action plugin are executed by the `<link normal section below>`'normal' action plugin`</link>`"

New-style modules
-----------------

> All of the modules that ship with Ansible fall into this category. All official modules (shipped with Ansible) use either Python or PowerShell.

Reviewer: I would prefix with: 'While you can write modules in any language, "

The TaskExecutor receives the module name and parameters that were parsed from
the :term:`playbook <playbooks>` (or from the command line in the case of
:command:`/usr/bin/ansible`). It uses the name to decide whether it's looking
at a module or an :ref:`Action Plugin <flow_action_plugins>`. If it's
a module, it loads the :ref:`Normal Action Plugin <flow_normal_action_plugin>`
and passes the name, variables, and other information about the task and play
to that Action Plugin for further processing.

.. _flow_normal_action_plugin:

The ``normal`` action plugin
----------------------------

The ``normal`` action plugin executes the module on the remote host. It is
the primary coordinator of much of the work to actually execute the module on
the managed machine.

> * It creates a connection to the managed machine by

Reviewer: It uses a connection plugin to create a connection, mostly indirectly by asking the connection plugin to transfer the module or other files ... it does not really create it itself directly.

boilerplate to pass in the module's parameters.  The zipfile is then Base64
encoded and wrapped in a small Python script which decodes the Base64 encoding
and places the zipfile into a temp directory on the managed node.  It then
extracts just the Ansible module script from the zip file and places that in
the temporary directory as well.  Then it sets the PYTHONPATH to find Python
modules inside of the zip file and imports the Ansible module as the special name, ``__main__``.
Importing it as ``__main__`` causes Python to think that it is executing a script rather than simply

> importing a module, thus running the code within.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
importing a module. This lets Ansible run both the wrapper script and the module code in a single copy of Python on the remote machine.
```

it needs to check this value. To access in a module, instantiate an
``AnsibleModule`` and then check the value of :attr:`AnsibleModule.no_log`.

.. note::
    ``no_log`` specified in a module's argument_spec is handled by a different mechanism.

_ansible_debug
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Boolean. Turns more verbose logging on or off and turns on logging of
external commands that the module executes. If a module uses
:py:meth:`AnsibleModule.debug` rather than :py:meth:`AnsibleModule.log` then
the messages are only logged if ``_ansible_debug`` is set to ``True``.
To set, add ``debug: True`` to :file:`ansible.cfg` or set the environment
variable :envvar:`ANSIBLE_DEBUG`. To access in a module, instantiate an
``AnsibleModule`` and access :attr:`AnsibleModule._debug`.

_ansible_diff
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Boolean. If a module supports it, tells the module to show a unified diff of
changes to be made to templated files. To set, pass the ``--diff`` command line
option. To access in a module, instantiate an `AnsibleModule` and access
:attr:`AnsibleModule._diff`.

_ansible_verbosity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Unused. This value could be used for finer grained control over logging.

Reviewer: missing several _ansible_module_name, _ansible_string_conversion_action, _ansible_keep_remote_files, _ansible_socket, _ansible_shell_executable, _ansible_tmpdir, _ansible_remote_tmp

Reviewer 2: I'll make this list comprehensive in a separate PR.  I've opened https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues/55935 so I can keep track of that task.
